Now let's talk about forms.
Forms are a little strange at first and react but once you get used to it I think it all makes sense.
Our objectives are to describe a controlled component versus an uncontrolled component.
We'll see more about that soon and Hendel submit using on submit.
First of all an uncontrolled component is one that re-act doesn't have control over.
So this example we have an input component and you'll notice that if you put an input right now and
your reaction opponent you can pipe inside of that component just fine and react has no idea what you're
typing.
The state is controlled by the browser.
It's not controlled by react.
Right.
So that's an uncontrolled component because re-act is not involved in the rendering process.
And the state of what's inside of that input box.
So here's an example of a controlled component and react in this input tag.
We've got a value and that value is set equal to this that state that input text notes component is
controlled.
But the problem is that we don't have anything changing this that state that put text.
So even though re-act now knows what to be rendered inside that input box you can no longer type anything.
So this is a very useful component right now because it will always just be whatever input text currently
is.
It can never change.
Now in this example we have a component that can be controlled.
So first of all this value is again that this data input text and we also have an onchange event.
Now this onchange event will be invoked any time you type a single key inside that input.
So if I type A in my input on change will be invoked.
This dot set state will then be invoked.
The text will be equal to whatever that event E which is just just like a browser event whatever that
target value is.
So that's whatever text is currently inside the input and after set stay is called of course render
gets called again and then when rendered gets called again we'll have this data input text with our
new letter A.
And then if I type B the same thing would happen and then C and so forth.
As I type each key set state always gets called render gets called again and then react.
Always knows the exact state of that input any time.
Lastly we should talk about how to submit a form.
So assuming I have a form like this the input would work exactly the same way we'd have a value.
This does state that input text and onchange if you wrap that in a form you want to handle the on submit
event and then on submit you'll get the event just like down here in on change.
And the first thing you always want to do with the summit event is prevent default.
This is just standard for the browser because if you don't prevent default it will submit any request
to the server and the whole page will refresh and you'll lose all your state.
So you don't want the browser default behavior that's why you first prevent default.
The next thing we'll do is update our data array.
So assuming I have something like this that state that data which keeps track of all the inputs that
I've submitted I'll just add that state to the end.
So now remember since this starts data input text is being updated constantly every time you press a
key the value of input text will be whatever it is when the user submits it.
Right so this does state that input text will be equal to the value that's over here.
So now we have that new array.
The last thing to do is just update the state.
So I'm updating the data here and I'm also updating the input text to be empty again so that when I
submit my form will be cleared out.
One last common mistake I want to point out is that when people first use forms they often make the
mistake of not using an on submit event but instead adding a submit button and putting the the.
Sort of like a summit event in the unclick.
So the problem with that is that there's a lot of behaviors in the browser that don't get covered by
this click event.
So really if you want to capture a form being submitted you should always use an on submit event not
an On Click event in the submit button.
That's all for forms.
That's the basics.
So next up we'll work on a quick exercise to help solidify this.